STREAMS-2177 add websocket subscriber documentation (#111)
Axway/streams-open-docs: content/en/docs/subscribers/subscriber-websocket.md

---
title: WebSocket Subscriber
linkTitle: WebSocket Subscriber
weight: 4
date: 2021-08-03
description: Learn how to configure and use the Streams WebSocket Subscriber.
---

## Overview

Streams WebSocket Subscriber allows clients to subscribe to a topic using websocket protocol. It allows bi-directionnal communication between Streams and clients.

## Subscribe to the topic via WebSocket

To subscribe to a topic, you need to use a websocket client. You can  find a lot of client library in many languages, so we will only describe high level configuration.

The url to connect to WebSocket Subscriber is `<BASE_URL>/streams/subscribers/websocket/api/v1/topics` where `BASE_URL` is the url to contact your Streams instance.

> After your client is connected with success, you must send a subscription request such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your websocket client is connected, a subscription request must be sent:
```

```json
{
    "topicIdOrName": "0387d8ff-b20a-43c9-b088-463f0e16fcdc",
    "subscriptionMode": "SNAPSHOT_ONLY"
}
```

| Configuration Entry | Mandatory | Default value | Description |
|---------------------|-----------|---------------|-------------|

> | topicIdOrName | yes | n/a | The unique identifier of the topic you want to subscribe to |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| topicIdOrName | yes | n/a | The unique identifier of the topic or the topic name you want to subscribe to |
```

Once the websocket subscription is successfully created, Streams will publish events into websocket channel. The events published will look like :

```json
{
    "id": "0387d8ff-b20a-43c9-b088-463f0e16fcdc#12",
    "type": "snapshot",
    "data": "<any_data>"
}
```

| Configuration Entry | Description |
|---------------------|-------------|
| id | The unique identifier of the topic you want to subscribe to |
| type | Definie the type of the event could be `event`, `snapshot`, `patch` or `error`. Refer to [type of events](#type-of-events) section
| data | Depending on your request's data format will be either string or base64 format of the published data. Refer to [data format](#data-format) section  |

### Data format

You can define the format of the `data` attribute from websocket response.

By default, the data format is `BINARY` so the `data` attribute will contain a binary form with base64 encoded of the data published into the subscribed topic.

If you choose to use `TEXT` format, the `data` attribute will contain a readable string form of the data published into the subscribed topic.

### Reconnect after an interruption

> In case of connection interruption, you have the capability to resume your streaming when subscribing.

Reviewer 2: I would have said: **your stream** instead of **your streaming**

Every events published by the websocket subscriber contains an unique identifier. This identifier could be used when you are reconnnecting to Streams using the `lastEventId` attribute from the subscription request.

### Type of events

> When using `snapshot-patch` subscription mode, the `snapshot` event is only emitted once, after the connection is successfully established. Subsequent event will be named `patch`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using `snapshot-patch` subscription mode, the `snapshot` event is only emitted once, after the connection is successfully established. Subsequent events will be named `patch`.
```

---
title: WebSocket Subscriber
linkTitle: WebSocket Subscriber
weight: 4
date: 2021-08-03
description: Learn how to configure and use the Streams WebSocket Subscriber.
---

## Overview

Streams WebSocket Subscriber allows clients to subscribe to a topic using websocket protocol. It allows bi-directionnal communication between Streams and clients.

{{< alert title="Warning" >}}This subscriber is still in beta.{{< /alert >}}

## Subscribe to the topic via WebSocket

To subscribe to a topic, you need to use a websocket client. You can  find a lot of client library in many languages, so we will only describe high level configuration.

The url to connect to WebSocket Subscriber is `<BASE_URL>/streams/subscribers/websocket/api/v1/topics` where `BASE_URL` is the url to contact your Streams instance.

Once your websocket client is connected, a subscription request must be sent:

```json
{
    "topicIdOrName": "0387d8ff-b20a-43c9-b088-463f0e16fcdc",

>     "subscriptionMode": "snapshot_only"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "subscriptionMode": "snapshot-only"
```

}
```

| Configuration Entry | Description |
|---------------------|-------------|
| id | The unique identifier of the event |
| type | Definie the type of the event could be `event`, `snapshot`, `patch` or `error`. Refer to [type of events](#type-of-events) section
| data | Depending on your request's data format will be either string or base64 format of the published data. Refer to [data format](#data-format) section  |

### Data format

You can define the format of the `data` attribute from websocket response.

By default, the data format is `binary` so the `data` attribute will contain a binary form with base64 encoded of the data published into the subscribed topic.

If you choose to use `text` format, the `data` attribute will contain a readable string form of the data published into the subscribed topic.

### Reconnect after an interruption

In case of connection interruption, you have the capability to resume your stream when subscribing.

Every events published by the websocket subscriber contains an unique identifier. This identifier could be used when you are reconnnecting to Streams using the `lastEventId` attribute from the subscription request.

### Type of events

> When using `snapshot-patch` subscription mode, the `snapshot` event is only emitted once, after the connection is successfully established. Subsequent events will be named `patch`.

Reviewer: It is alreay explained in the subscribers root page: https://deploy-preview-111--streams-open-docs.netlify.app/docs/subscribers/#understanding-snapshot-patch-subscription-mode
